For the
Strength
of Youth
A Guide for Making Choices
FOR THE
Strength
OF
Youth

Published by
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Salt Lake City, Utah
© 2022 by Intellectual Reserve, Inc.
All rights reserved. 
Version: 5/21
PD60013160 000
Printed in the United States of America

1
Contents
Message from the First Presidency  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
Make inspired choices  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4
Jesus Christ will help you  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6
Love God, love your neighbor  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10
Walk in God’s light  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Your body is sacred  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Truth will make you free  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Find joy in Christ  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Appendix  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
What about . . . ?   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40


2
Message from the  
First Presidency
Our dear young brothers and sisters,
We love you and we have confidence in you. You are truly among 
Heavenly Father’s choice spirits, sent to earth at this time to do 
important things.  
There may be times when you don’t feel strong or capable. That’s 
normal. Especially in those moments, turn to the Savior. He is the 
“strength of youth.”
This guide will help you build a solid foundation for making 
choices to stay on the covenant path. It will help you prepare to 
make sacred covenants in the temple, prepare to serve a mission, 
and find joy in following Jesus Christ throughout your life. We 
hope you feel that you belong in the Savior’s Church and have 
power from Him to fulfill His purposes for you.
We know God lives. It is our prayer that you will stay firmly on the 
covenant path that leads back to your Father in Heaven. As you 
do, you will be an influence for good, sharing the gospel joyfully 
and preparing the world for the Second Coming of the Savior.
The First Presidency

4
Make inspired choices
In For the Strength of Youth, you will find the teachings of  
Jesus Christ and His prophets. With these truths as your guide, 
you can make inspired choices that will bless you now and 
throughout eternity.
Jesus Christ is the way to eternal joy. As you use your freedom 
to choose to follow Jesus Christ, you are on the path that leads to 
eternal happiness. Make Jesus Christ your standard, your rock-
solid foundation. Build your life on His teachings, and measure 
your choices by them. The covenants you make at baptism, 
during the sacrament, and in the temple are the building blocks 
of your firm foundation in Christ. You’ll still face struggles and 
temptations, but Heavenly Father and the Savior will help you 
through them all.
You are a beloved spirit child of God. His great plan of happiness 
makes it possible for you to grow spiritually and develop your 
divine potential. This is why He sent Jesus Christ to be your Savior.
Your Father in Heaven trusts you. He has given you great 
blessings, including the fulness of the gospel and sacred 
ordinances and covenants that bind you to Him and bring 
His power into your life. With those blessings comes added 
responsibility. He knows you can make a difference in the world, 
and that requires, in many cases, being different from the world. 
Seek your Heavenly Father’s guidance as you make choices. He 
will bless you with inspiration through the Holy Ghost.
The purpose of For the Strength of Youth is not to give you a “yes” 
or “no” about every possible choice you might face. Instead, the 

5
Lord is inviting you to live in a higher and holier way—His way. 
This guide will teach you about His way. It explains truths He has 
revealed. Make these truths your guide for making choices—
big choices, like making covenants in the temple and serving a 
mission, as well as daily choices, like how to treat people or how 
to spend your time.
While others can help you, your spiritual growth is personal. It’s 
between you and the Lord. He knows your heart, and only He 
can be the ultimate Judge. Do your best to improve each day, 
keep God’s commandments and honor your covenants, and help 
others come closer to the Savior. 
See Mosiah 4:29–30 (the ways to sin are numberless, so we must 
watch ourselves); Helaman 5:12 (build your foundation on Christ); 
Doctrine and Covenants 45:57 (take the Holy Spirit for your guide); 
82:15 (bind yourself to the Lord through covenants).
How this guide is organized
Each topic has three parts: 
1. Eternal truths, or doctrine of  
the restored gospel of Jesus Christ 
2. Invitations to act on those truths
3. Promised blessings that the Lord  
offers those who live by His teachings


Jesus Christ  
will help you
Psalm 147:3

7
Jesus Christ is your strength. He has done 
everything necessary for you to have joy in 
this life and forever. By choosing Him and His 
gospel, you are choosing eternal joy.
Even when you try to do your best to make good 
choices, sometimes you will make mistakes. You’ll do 
things you wish you hadn’t. Everyone does. When that happens, 
it is easy to feel discouraged or wonder if you will ever be good 
enough. But there is good news—wonderful, hopeful news! 
Because God loves you, He sent His Son, Jesus Christ, who took 
upon Himself your sins so you can repent and keep progressing.
ETERNAL TRUTHS
Jesus Christ can strengthen you. He can help you change your 
desires, your thoughts, and your actions. When you are worried, 
afraid, or struggling in any way, He will comfort you. He will help 
you in all aspects of your life.
Repentance isn’t punishment for sin; it is the way the Savior 
frees us from sin. To repent means to change—to turn away from 
sin and toward God. It means to improve and receive forgiveness. 
This kind of change is not a one-time event; it’s an ongoing process.
INVITATIONS 
Repent. Turn to the Lord with the desire to improve. When you’ve 
done something wrong, honestly admit it before God and, as 
needed, to your bishop and anyone you may have harmed. Do 
your best to make things right.

8
Rejoice in the gift to do better and be better. Even when it is 
not easy and takes longer than you’d like, never stop trying. Keep 
working and trusting in the Lord. The Savior will help you every 
step of the way.
PROMISED BLESSINGS
Jesus Christ will forgive and heal you as you repent. He will 
replace your guilt with peace and joy. He will remember your sins 
no more. In His strength, your desire to keep His commandments 
will increase.
He will change your heart and your life. Little by little, you will 
grow and become more like Him. Your covenant connection with 
Him will bring you greater access to His power.
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
How do I know if God has forgiven me? God 
promises He will forgive those who repent. When 
you feel comfort from the Spirit, you can know that 
the Savior’s atoning power is working in your life.
When do I need the help of the bishop to repent? Your bishop 
holds priesthood keys and spiritual gifts to help you repent. You 
can seek his help and counsel at any time. If you have made 
serious mistakes, such as breaking the law of chastity, meet 
with your bishop. He won’t condemn you. He is a representative 
of Jesus Christ and will help you know how to fully repent and 
receive the Savior’s healing and strengthening power.

9
I’m trying to repent, but I keep making the 
same mistakes. What should I do now? It 
takes time to develop good habits and break 
bad ones, so don’t give up. Turn toward 
Christ. His grace is sufficient. Try again. You 
are never alone in your efforts to progress. 
Jesus Christ is always with you.
See Enos 1:6 (guilt can be swept away); Mosiah 4:3 (through the 
Holy Ghost, God lets you know you are forgiven); 26:30 (the Savior 
forgives as often as we repent); Ether 12:27 (the Savior’s grace 
can make weak things strong); Moroni 6:8 (those who repent are 
forgiven); 10:32 (be perfected in Christ); Doctrine and Covenants 
1:32 (the Lord forgives those who repent); 58:42–43 (repentance 
includes confessing and forsaking sin).
TEMPLE RECOMMEND QUESTIONS
Do you have faith in and a testimony of God,  
the Eternal Father; His Son, Jesus Christ; and the 
Holy Ghost?
Do you have a testimony of the Atonement of Jesus Christ and  
of His role as your Savior and Redeemer?

Love God, love  
your neighbor
Matthew 22:37–40

11
To help you make good 
choices, God gives 
commandments. He does 
this because He loves you. 
And the best reason to obey 
God’s commandments is because 
you love Him. Love is at the heart of 
God’s commandments.
ETERNAL TRUTHS
God loves you. He is your Father. His perfect love can inspire 
you to love Him. When your love for Heavenly Father is the most 
important influence in your life, many decisions become easier.
The two greatest of all commandments, Jesus taught, are to love 
God and love your neighbor. And who is your neighbor? Everyone! 
Everything else taught in the scriptures and by the prophets is 
connected to these two commandments.
All people are your brothers and sisters— including, of course, 
people who are different from you or disagree with you. Heavenly 
Father wants His children to love each other. When you serve His 
children, you are serving Him.
INVITATIONS
Show love for God by keeping His commandments.  
For example, by keeping the Sabbath day holy, including by 
faithfully preparing for and partaking of the sacrament, you show 
God that you are willing to dedicate one day a week to Him. As 
you fast and pay tithes and offerings, you show God that His work 

12
is more important to you than material things. When you use the 
names of God and Christ with reverence, never in a vain or casual 
way, you show you are grateful for all They have done for you.
Treat everyone as a child of God.  
As a disciple of Jesus Christ, you can lead 
out in treating people of all races, religions, 
and any other groups with love, respect, 
and inclusion—especially those who are 
sometimes victims of hurtful words and 
actions. Reach out to those who feel lonely, 
isolated, or helpless. Help them feel Heavenly 
Father’s love through you.
Make sure your language reflects love of God and others—
whether you’re communicating in person or virtually. Say things 
that uplift—nothing that might be divisive, hurtful, or offensive, 
even as a joke. Your words can be powerful. Let them be powerful 
for good.
Loving all of God’s children starts at home. Do your part to make 
your home a place where everyone can feel the Savior’s love.
PROMISED BLESSINGS
Your relationship with God will deepen as you express your  
love by obeying His commandments and keeping your covenants 
with Him.
Your relationship with others will deepen as you express your 
love through Christlike service. You will find joy in making the 
world a more loving place.

13
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
How can I feel God’s love? Heavenly Father’s 
love is always available. Talk to Him often through 
prayer. Share your feelings with Him, and listen 
for impressions from Him. Read His words in the 
scriptures. Think about all that He has done for you. Spend time 
in places and activities where His Spirit is present. 
Does the Lord expect me to love everyone, even those who 
treat me badly? The Lord expects you to love your enemies and 
pray for those who mistreat you. However, that does not mean 
you should stay in a situation that causes you emotional, physical, 
or spiritual harm. Set healthy boundaries to keep yourself safe. If 
you are being bullied or abused—or if you know this is happening 
to someone else—talk to a trustworthy adult. 
When and how should I get to know members of the  
opposite sex? The best way to get to know others is through 
genuine friendship. While you are young, build good friendships 
with many people. In some cultures, youth get to know members 
of the opposite sex through wholesome group activities. For your 
emotional and spiritual development and safety, one-on-one 
activities should be postponed until you are mature—age 16 is 
a good guideline. Counsel with your parents and leaders. Save 
exclusive relationships for when you are older. Spend time with 
those who help you keep your commitments to Jesus Christ.
What can I do if my home is not a place of love? Your Savior 
knows your situation, and He loves you. Be patient, continue 
to keep God’s commandments, and be a good example to your 

14
family. Build relationships within your ward family. Prepare now to 
build your own family founded on the teachings of Jesus Christ.
See Isaiah 58:3–11 (purposes of fasting); 58:13–14 (blessings of 
honoring the Sabbath); Malachi 3:8–10 (blessings of paying tithing); 
Luke 6:27–28 (love your enemies); 10:25–37 (who is my neighbor?); 
John 3:16–17 (God loved us, so He sent His Son); 14:15 (we keep the 
commandments because we love God); 1 John 4:19 (we love God 
because He loves us); Mosiah 2:17 (when we serve others, we are 
serving God). 
TEMPLE RECOMMEND QUESTIONS
Do you follow the teachings of the Church of Jesus 
Christ in your private and public behavior with 
members of your family and others?
Do you strive to keep the Sabbath day holy, both at home and at 
church; attend your meetings; prepare for and worthily partake 
of the sacrament; and live your life in harmony with the laws and 
commandments of the gospel?
Are you a full-tithe payer?

Walk in  
God’s light
Galatians 5:25

17
You make better choices when you can see 
things clearly. That’s why light is so important; 
light makes it easier to see the right path. 
Heavenly Father has given you access to 
heavenly light—the gift of the Holy Ghost—to 
help you see clearly what is good and bad, right and wrong.
ETERNAL TRUTHS
At baptism you enter a joyful covenant 
relationship with Heavenly Father and Jesus 
Christ. In the temple, you will make additional 
covenants that can strengthen that relationship. 
Each week during the sacrament, you renew your 
covenants. You express your willingness to keep the 
commandments, and the Lord blesses you with the 
opportunity to have the Holy Spirit as your constant companion. 
It is one of His greatest gifts to you.
Making good choices improves your ability to feel the Spirit.  
There are many good and wholesome things in this world. Just as 
your body is affected by what you eat and drink, your mind and 
spirit are profoundly affected by what you read, watch, and listen to.
INVITATIONS 
Make time for the Lord every day. Learn of Him. Always 
remember Him. Pray to your Heavenly Father. Study the holy 
scriptures and the words of living prophets. Then strive to live  
by what you learn.

18
Seek that which uplifts, inspires, and invites the Spirit.  
As you make choices about what to watch, read, listen to, or 
participate in, think about how it makes you feel. Does it invite 
good thoughts? Stay away from anything that mocks sacred things 
or that is immoral. Don’t participate in anything that dulls your 
judgment or sensitivity to the Spirit, such as violence, alcohol, and 
harmful drugs. Have the courage to turn off a video or game, walk 
out of a movie or a dance, change your music, or turn away from 
anything that is not consistent with the Spirit.
Use social media to uplift. Social media can be a 
powerful communication tool. If you use it, focus 
on light, faith, and truth. Don’t compare your life 
to what other people seem to be experiencing. 
Remember that your worth comes from being a 
child of heavenly parents, not from social media.

19
Seek wholesome experiences and real and lasting relationships.  
Be careful that your use of technology and media does not replace 
spending in-person time with family and friends. Social media and 
other technology can take much of your time without giving a lot 
of value in return. Take a break from the virtual world and connect 
with people in real life.
PROMISED BLESSINGS
You can have the Spirit with you always. The Holy Ghost will 
bear witness to you of Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ. He will 
comfort, guide, warn, and sanctify you. He will help you recognize 
truth and see the good in the world.
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
How can I know if I’m feeling the Holy Ghost? 
Learning to be aware of the Spirit takes time, 
practice, and patience. He speaks to different people 
in different ways. Don’t overlook simple 
things—the peaceful feeling you get hearing 
someone’s testimony or the unsettled feeling 
you get after making a wrong choice. Search 
the scriptures for different ways the Spirit 
communicates, pray about it, and keep looking 
for opportunities to feel the Spirit.
What is pornography? Why should I avoid it? Pornography is a 
representation, in pictures or words, that is designed to arouse 
sexual feelings. Pornography comes in many forms, including 
videos, pictures, books, and music. It can also be messages or 

20
images sent between friends. Pornography treats things that are 
sacred—our physical bodies and sexual feelings—with disrespect. 
You may come across pornography without meaning to. Whether 
you come across pornography intentionally or not, turn away 
immediately. You may also want to talk with a parent or other 
trusted adult. Intentionally viewing pornography is sinful and 
harms your ability to feel the Spirit. It weakens your self-control 
and distorts the way you see yourself and others. Jesus Christ 
has the power to help you resist pornography and repent. Turn 
toward Him; turn away from darkness. Your bishop can help you 
receive strength and forgiveness through the Savior.
See Amos 5:14 (seek good); Galatians 5:22–23 (the fruits  
of the Spirit); Moroni 7:18–19 (the light of Christ); Doctrine  
and Covenants 6:23 (the Lord speaks peace); 20:77, 79 (the 
sacrament prayers).
TEMPLE RECOMMEND QUESTIONS
The Lord has said that all things are to be  
“done in cleanliness” before Him (Doctrine 
and Covenants 42:41). Do you strive for moral 
cleanliness in your thoughts and behavior?  
Do you obey the law of chastity?
Do you strive to keep the Sabbath day holy, both at home and at 
church; attend your meetings; prepare for and worthily partake 
of the sacrament; and live your life in harmony with the laws and 
commandments of the gospel?

21
What to do in the moment
When you find yourself tempted to 
use media or technology in unhealthy 
ways—whether it’s driving away the 
Spirit or even just wasting your time— 
try the following:
1. Call it what it is. Acknowledge what you 
are tempted to do . You might even say it aloud—for example, 
“This image is pornography,” “This doesn’t feel right,” or “This 
could hurt someone’s feelings.” 
2. Replace what you are doing with a better choice.  
Get away; move to another room or go outside . Focus on 
something good .
3. Connect with someone or something you love and respect—
maybe a family member, a supportive friend, or your favorite 
scripture. Most of all, connect with your Heavenly Father, and 
pray for strength .
For more help, see “Media Safety” in the Gospel Library.

Your body 
is sacred
1 Corinthians 6:18–20

23
Your body is an amazing gift from your 
Heavenly Father. He gave it to you to help 
you become more like Him. Having a body 
gives you increased power to exercise your 
freedom to choose. The restored gospel of 
Jesus Christ can help you see your body from 
God’s perspective. And that makes a big difference in your choices 
about what to do with your body and how to care for it.
ETERNAL TRUTHS
Your body is in the image of God— the most glorious, majestic 
Being in the universe. The scriptures compare our bodies to a 
holy temple, a place where the Spirit can dwell. Of course, your 
body is not perfect now. But the experiences you’re having with 
your body can help you prepare to receive one day a perfect, 
resurrected, glorified body.
Your soul is made up of your body and your spirit. For this reason, 
physical health and spiritual health are closely connected. The 
Savior revealed the Word of Wisdom to teach principles of caring for 
your body—and to promise physical and spiritual blessings.
Sexual feelings are an important part of God’s plan to create 
happy marriages and eternal families. These feelings are not 
sinful—they are sacred. Because sexual feelings are so sacred and 
so powerful, God has given you His law of chastity to prepare you 
to use these feelings as He intends. The law of chastity states that 
God approves of sexual activity only between a man and a woman 
who are married. Many in the world ignore or even mock God’s 
law, but the Lord invites us to be His disciples and live a standard 
higher than the world’s.

24
INVITATIONS
Treat your body—and others’ bodies—  
with respect. As you make decisions 
about your clothing, hairstyle, and 
appearance, ask yourself, “Am I 
honoring my body as a sacred gift from 
God?” Heavenly Father wants us to see 
each other for who we really are: not just 
physical bodies but His beloved children 
with a divine destiny. Avoid styles that emphasize 
or draw inappropriate attention to your physical body instead of 
who you are as a child of God with an eternal future. Let moral 
cleanliness and love for God guide your choices. Seek counsel 
from your parents.

25
Do things that will strengthen  
your body— nothing that will hurt 
or damage it. Enjoy with gratitude 
the many good things God has 
provided. But remember that 
alcohol, tobacco, coffee, tea, 
and other harmful drugs and 
substances are not for your 
body or your spirit. Even helpful 
substances, like prescription drugs, can 
be destructive if not used correctly.
Keep sex and sexual feelings sacred. They should not be the 
subject of jokes or entertainment. Outside of marriage between 
a man and a woman, it is wrong to touch the private, sacred 
parts of another person’s body even if clothed. In your choices 
about what you do, look at, read, listen to, think about, post, or 
text, avoid anything that purposely arouses lustful emotions in 
others or yourself. This includes pornography in any form. If you 
find that situations or activities make temptations stronger, avoid 
them. You know what those situations and activities are. And if 
you aren’t sure, the Spirit, your parents, and your leaders can 
help you know. Show your Father in Heaven that you honor and 
respect the sacred power to create life.
PROMISED BLESSINGS
Your respect for yourself and others will increase as you honor 
your body through your behavior, appearance, and dress.

26
The Lord has promised great treasures of knowledge to those 
who keep the Word of Wisdom. A healthy body, free from addiction, 
also increases your ability to receive personal revelation, think 
clearly, and serve the Lord.
Living the law of chastity brings God’s approval and personal 
spiritual power. When you are married, this law will bring greater 
love, trust, and unity to your marriage. Obeying this law will make it 
possible for you to progress eternally and become more like your 
Heavenly Father. Your confidence will grow as you live as a disciple 
of Jesus Christ.

27
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
What is the Lord’s standard on dress, grooming, 
tattoos, and piercings? The Lord’s standard is for 
you to honor the sacredness of your body, even 
when that means being different from the world. Let 
this truth and the Spirit be your guide as you make decisions—
especially decisions that have lasting effects on your body. Be wise 
and faithful, and seek counsel from your parents and leaders.
How can I overcome temptations and bad habits? Heavenly 
Father and Jesus Christ have the power to help you. Fill your 
life with things that invite that power into your life, such as 
prayers, scripture study, and service to others. Turn to Jesus 
Christ and His gospel and you will find that 
weaknesses can become strengths. 
Seek help from parents, leaders, 
and professional counselors as 
needed. For those who suffer from 
addiction, the Church offers an 
addiction recovery program. These 
are blessings the Savior’s Church 
provides to help you regain control 
of your life. It will take time, so be 
patient, and never give up.
I am attracted to people of my same sex. How do these 
standards apply to me? Feeling same-sex attraction is not a sin. 
If you have these feelings and do not pursue or act on them, 
you are living Heavenly Father’s sacred law of chastity. You are 

28
a beloved child of God and a disciple of Jesus Christ. Remember 
that the Savior understands everything you experience. Through 
your covenant connection with Him, you will find strength to obey 
God’s commandments and receive the blessings He promises. 
Trust Him and His gospel.
I was abused, and I feel ashamed. Am I guilty of sin?  
Being a victim of any abuse or assault does not make you guilty 
of sin. Please do not feel guilt or shame. The Savior loves you. 
He wants to help you, heal you, and give you peace. Professional 
counselors, your family members, and your leaders can also help.
See Genesis 1:27 (we are created in God’s image); John 14:18 (the 
Savior promises comfort); Philippians 4:7 (the peace of God passes 
understanding); Doctrine and Covenants 88:15 (the spirit and 
the body are the soul); 89 (the Word of Wisdom); 121:45 (virtuous 
thoughts lead to increased confidence).
TEMPLE RECOMMEND QUESTIONS
The Lord has said that all things are to be  
“done in cleanliness” before Him (Doctrine 
and Covenants 42:41). Do you strive for moral 
cleanliness in your thoughts and behavior?  
Do you obey the law of chastity?
Do you understand and obey the Word of Wisdom?

29
Caring for your body includes caring for your 
mental and emotional health
It’s normal to feel sad or anxious from time to 
time . When you are unable to cope with those 
feelings and recover from them, that may be 
a sign of mental or emotional challenges that 
require help from a parent, leader, doctor, or 
professional counselor . 
Such help can be a blessing 
from your loving Father in Heaven. If 
you ever have thoughts of harming 
yourself or ending your own life, 
seek help right away . Remember, 
you are loved, valued, and 
needed . Whatever your emotional 
or mental struggles may be, seek 
peace in Jesus Christ and His gospel.

Truth will make  
you free
John 8:32

31
Your Heavenly Father is a God of truth. He is 
all-knowing. All truth comes from Him and 
leads to Him. You show that you value truth 
as you seek learning, live with integrity, and 
bravely stand for what you know is right—
even if you have to stand alone.
ETERNAL TRUTHS
Heavenly Father wants His daughters and sons to always be 
learning. You have both temporal and spiritual reasons to seek 
and love learning. Education is not just about earning money. It is 
part of your eternal goal to become more like Heavenly Father.
Living with integrity means that you love truth with all your 
heart— more than you love personal comfort, popularity, or 
convenience. It means doing what is right simply because it is right.
You have something precious to share. The gospel of Jesus Christ 
holds the answers to life’s questions. It is the way to peace and 
happiness. You may not know everything, but you know enough to 
help others understand and value true, eternal principles.
INVITATIONS
Always be learning. Look for opportunities to expand your mind 
and your skills. These opportunities can include formal education 
at school or vocational training, as well as informal learning 
from sources you trust. Involve the Lord in your efforts, and He 
will guide you. As you learn about the world around you, learn 
also about the Savior, who created the world. Study His life and 
teachings. Make seminary, institute, and personal gospel study 
part of your lifelong learning.

32
Love the truth so much that you would never want to steal, lie, 
cheat, or deceive in any way—at school, at work, online, everywhere. 
Be the same faithful follower of Jesus Christ in public and in private.
Be a light for others. Let your words and your actions reflect 
your faith in Jesus Christ. Prepare now for future opportunities to 
share His glorious gospel, as a missionary and throughout your 
life. And be ready to tell anyone who asks you about the hope and 
happiness you feel.
PROMISED BLESSINGS
Education increases your ability to serve the Lord. It empowers 
you to bless others, especially your family. The more you learn, 
the more you can help build God’s kingdom and influence the 
world for good.
Honesty brings peace and self-respect. When your words and 
actions align with truth, you show that you can be trusted—by 
other people and by the Lord.
When you stand up for the teachings of Jesus Christ, He stands 
with you. Others may not agree with you, but your courage 
and sincerity will be noticed. Whether or not others follow your 
example, your testimony, confidence, and faith in Christ will grow.
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
Is it wrong to have questions about the Church? 
How can I find answers? Having questions is not 
a sign of weakness or lack of faith. In fact, asking 
questions can help build faith. The Restoration of the 
gospel started when 14-year-old Joseph Smith asked questions 

with faith. Seek answers in the scriptures, 
in the words of God’s prophets, from your 
leaders and faithful parents, and from 
God Himself. If answers don’t come right 
away, trust that you will learn line upon line. 
Keep living by what you already know, and 
keep seeking for truth.
How can I stand up for what is right without offending those 
who have different beliefs? Start by making sure your words 
and actions are inspired by love for God and His children. Sharing 
the gospel should not be done in a spirit of contention but rather 
with clarity, meekness, and kindness. You can be loving toward 
others even if you don’t agree with their views.
See Matthew 5:14–16 (let your light shine); John 14:6 (Jesus is the 
truth); 1 Peter 3:15 (be ready always to share your hope in Christ); 
Doctrine and Covenants 88:77–80 (things the Lord wants us to 
learn); 93:36 (the glory of God is intelligence); 124:15 (integrity means 
loving what is right); 130:18 (our intelligence will rise with us when we 
are resurrected).
TEMPLE RECOMMEND QUESTION
Do you strive to be honest in all that you do?
33

34
Find joy in Christ
Choices matter. Choices based on gospel teachings are steps that 
lead you closer to your Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ. Jesus 
said, “These things have I spoken unto you, … that your joy might 
be full” (John 15:11). With each step toward Him, you will feel 
closer to the Spirit and your covenant relationship with God will 
become stronger.
But that doesn’t mean the path will be problem-free. And since no 
one walks a perfectly straight line, constantly check your direction 
and honor God’s commandments. Keep your covenants with God 
and prepare to make more. Covenants connect you to Heavenly 
Father and the Savior. They increase God’s power in your life and 
prepare you to receive eternal life.
Of all possible choices, the one that matters most is the choice to 
follow Jesus Christ. He is the strength of youth. His gospel is the 
joyful way back to your Heavenly Father.

36
Appendix
One way to assess your progress on the covenant path is to 
ponder the questions below. They are the questions you are 
asked when you are interviewed to receive a temple recommend, 
but don’t wait for an interview. Do your own spiritual checkup. The 
Young Women Theme, the Aaronic Priesthood Quorum Theme, 
and the Ten Commandments can also be helpful tools in your 
self-evaluation.
TEMPLE RECOMMEND QUESTIONS FOR YOUTH
Do you have faith in and a testimony of God,  
the Eternal Father; His Son, Jesus Christ; and the 
Holy Ghost?
Do you have a testimony of the Atonement of Jesus Christ and  
of His role as your Savior and Redeemer?
Do you have a testimony of the Restoration of the gospel of  
Jesus Christ?
Do you sustain the President of The Church of Jesus Christ of 
Latter-day Saints as the prophet, seer, and revelator and as the 
only person on the earth authorized to exercise all priesthood 
keys? Do you sustain the members of the First Presidency and 
the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles as prophets, seers, and 
revelators? Do you sustain the other General Authorities and  
local leaders of the Church?
The Lord has said that all things are to be “done in cleanliness” 
before Him (Doctrine and Covenants 42:41). Do you strive for 

37
moral cleanliness in your thoughts and behavior? Do you obey  
the law of chastity?
Do you follow the teachings of the Church of Jesus Christ in  
your private and public behavior with members of your family  
and others?
Do you support or promote any teachings, practices, or  
doctrine contrary to those of The Church of Jesus Christ of  
Latter-day Saints?
Do you strive to keep the Sabbath day holy, both at home and at 
church; attend your meetings; prepare for and worthily partake 
of the sacrament; and live your life in harmony with the laws and 
commandments of the gospel?
Do you strive to be honest in all that you do?
Are you a full-tithe payer?
Do you understand and obey the Word of Wisdom?
Are there serious sins in your life that need to be resolved with 
priesthood authorities as part of your repentance?
Do you consider yourself worthy to enter the Lord’s house and 
participate in temple ordinances?

38
Young Women Theme
I am a beloved daughter of heavenly parents, with a divine nature 
and eternal destiny.
As a disciple of Jesus Christ, I strive to become like Him. I seek  
and act upon personal revelation and minister to others in His 
holy name.
I will stand as a witness of God at all times and in all things and in 
all places.
As I strive to qualify for exaltation, I cherish the gift of repentance 
and seek to improve each day. With faith, I will strengthen my 
home and family, make and keep sacred covenants, and receive 
the ordinances and blessings of the holy temple.
Aaronic Priesthood Quorum Theme
I am a beloved son of God, and He has a work for me to do.
With all my heart, might, mind, and strength, I will love God, keep 
my covenants, and use His priesthood to serve others, beginning 
in my own home.
As I strive to serve, exercise faith, repent, and improve each day,  
I will qualify to receive temple blessings and the enduring joy of 
the gospel.
I will prepare to become a diligent missionary, loyal husband, and 
loving father by being a true disciple of Jesus Christ.
I will help prepare the world for the Savior’s return by inviting all 
to come unto Christ and receive the blessings of His Atonement. 

39
The Ten Commandments
Thou shalt have no other gods before me.
Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image.
Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain.
Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy.
Honour thy father and thy mother.
Thou shalt not kill.
Thou shalt not commit adultery.
Thou shalt not steal.
Thou shalt not bear false witness.
Thou shalt not covet.
See Exodus 20:3–17.

40
What about . . . ?
Below are some topics you might have questions about. For the 
Strength of Youth doesn’t mention all of them by name, but it does 
teach eternal truths that can help you make decisions about these 
topics. You’ll find these truths on the pages listed below.
A
addiction, 26, 27
alcohol, 18, 23, 25, 26
anxiety, 29
Atonement of Jesus Christ,  
6–9, 27
B
body piercing, 27
bullying, 12, 13
C
chastity, 23, 25, 26, 27–28
cheating, 31, 32
coffee, 23, 25, 26
commandments, 11–12
D
dance, 18
dating, 13
depression, 29
dress, 24, 25, 27
drugs, 18, 23, 25, 26
E
education, 31–32
emotional health, 29
F
faith in Jesus Christ, 32–33
family, 12, 13–14
friends, 12, 13
G
gossip, 12
grace, 6–9, 27
grooming, 24, 25, 27
H
Holy Ghost, 4, 8, 13, 17–19
homosexuality, 27–28
honesty, 31, 32
I
integrity, 31, 32
internet, 18–19

41
J
Jesus Christ, 4, 6–9, 11, 12, 17, 
27, 29, 32, 34
joy, 4, 8, 12, 34
L
language, 12
LGBTQ+, 27–28
love, 10–14
lying, 31, 32
M
media, 17–21
mental health, 29
missionary work, 32
modesty, 24, 25, 27
movies, 17–21
music, 17–21
P
piercings, 27
pornography, 19–20, 25
prejudice, 12
prescription drugs, 25
Q
questions, 32–33
R
racism, 12
repentance, 6–9
S
Sabbath day, 11
sacrament, 17
same-sex attraction, 27–28
sex, 23, 25, 26, 27–28
sexual abuse, 28
sexual assault, 28
sexual purity, 23, 25, 26, 27–28
social media, 17–21
stealing, 31, 32
swearing, 12
T
tattoos, 27
tea, 23, 25, 26
tithing, 11–12
V
videos, 17–21
violence, 18
W
Word of Wisdom, 23, 25, 26

Look unto me
in every thought;  
doubt not, fear not.
 DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS 6:36

